---
layout: default
---

### A week on nights

In the middle of my surgery rotation, I did a week of nights on the trauma and emergency general surgery service. It was my first time working nights for more than a one-off night, and it was tiring, messed with my sleep schedule, and a little tough because I happened to get sick with a upper respiratory infection at the same time. But, it was the best week. 

I walked into the workroom and the resident asked me if I wanted to help out in a resuscitation room. Of course I did. In there were two plastics chief residents getting ready to explore an intubated man's large neck wound. I put on some gloves and helped out grabbing things and suctioning. The CT appeared concerning but after some exploration in his neck they did not find anything and tied a penrose to allow the wound to drain. The rest of the night was slow, I mostly sat around the workroom with a senior resident and checked on a few patients together. He gently pimped me all night - asking me what the story was with this patient, why they presented like that, asking me to walk through the CTA and identify each major vessel head to toe and its subdivisions, patient presentations and my workup and treatment for different biliary tree conditions, and the fundamentals of trauma response in a resuscitation room. At one point he looks at me and says, "what do you want to get pimped on next?". I did not know many things, but that style of back-and-forth conversation and questioning was fun. I learned more in those 3 hours than I had the previous week. 

Night two started off seeing some consults in the emergency room. I gave some patients incentive spirometers, but first dropped two on the ground while I was removing the wrapping. Later, I spoke to an older lady with a sternal fracture whose daughter was yelling at the nurses for improper treatment, yelling at me for not doing anything for her mom, and showing me her phone while actively booking an uber to a different hospital. My resident and I came in to discuss some medical things but they kept yelling about not having been given a pillow for the past hour. I got her a pillow. She and her daughter felt much better after that. People want to be listened to and that provides a lot of comfort for them - sometimes more than the medical interventions itself. Upstairs, in the post-anesthesia care unit, I was asking this patient who had been in a bar fight the [CAGE](https://www.mdcalc.com/calc/1729/cage-questions-alcohol-use) questions as part of our tertiary trauma survey. Her boyfriend and sister were there like a peanut gallery making jokes the whole time and I learned that they we all enjoy going to the same bars. It is interesting to think about being at that bar in the future and possibly seeing them there. In the middle of the night, I scrubbed into a laparoscopic cholecystectomy, drove the camera, and closed up the port sites with some simple interrupted stitches. During down time, I was gently pimped on diverticulitis and general pain management principles in between resident-sponsored trips to the cafeteria. 

In the middle of night three, an older lady who fell down stairs came to the emergency department as a full trauma with facial fractures and a large curved scalp laceration stretching mid-frontal to occipital. The chief on service and I repaired the laceration - he did probably 65% of it but I got to do the rest. It was a challenge to suture around hair. The patient was worried the whole time and very sensitive to the needle. We ended up using 30 cc of lidocaine and a good amount of morphine. It was satisfying to see her tissue come together at the end. Over the course of the night, there were six different full traumas. 

A recent college graduate got hit by a car while jogging around campus and she came in with a small hemopneumothorax. Our resident placed a bedside chest tube in the resuscitation room after she was pan-scanned. Luckily, no other injuries were reported. Her friend was bedside the whole time supporting her - it was very thoughtful. We were seeing a consult and got paged about another patient in the emergency room with lots of abdominal pain and a hernia who only spoke spanish. My resident asked me to go see what was happening. I was able to understand most of what he was saying and communicate basics, get a history of when the pain started, other symptoms, and did a physical exam. The hernia was not reducible, was erythematous and hard and likely incarcerated possibly strangulated. A nurse nearby spoke spanish and I was able to complete the rest of the exam with her as an interpreter. Then, coming back with my resident, chief, and attending, we consented him for surgery with a tele-interpreter. I scrubbed in to his open hernia repair, assisted with retraction and suction, got to see bruised but not necrotic bowel and got to close skin. I learned how to do a subcuticular stitch too. And, I got to do a post-op check on a young nine year old kid with his family who just had an appendectomy - he was so cute and had a story to tell his friends about a fight he got into as the reason for his appendectomy port site incision. 

My last day was probably the highlight of my week. A full trauma came in early in the night. She had a stab wound on the left anterior chest wall and her pan-scan was negative aside from a small pneumothorax and the chest laceration. We walk into the room to do the laceration repair with the chief, pgy2 and me. The chief asks the pgy2 if he needs help and he says "I'm fine, Adith will do it". I thought it was like other repairs where I do some of it and he does some of it. I get everything set up - chloraprep, suture kit, lidocaine, and gloves - and the chief looks at me and goes "Well, you're on the clock. The midazolam they gave her is going to wear off eventually". And, having never done a repair solo, I did it. I felt calm, it was learning by doing at its best. The pgy2 at the end came over after charting, complimented the closure and told me to dress the wound. I was beaming proud. After, I saw consults on my own. In particular, after a 10 minute history and physical with this patient with a possible strangulated hernia currently in pain, I reduced his hernia and he was able to walk for the first time in a few days without pain. He was very grateful and happy, thanking me profusely. He avoided surgery that night, and I was happy to help him with that. Reporting back to the chief, he agreed with my presentation. We came back to the workroom and one of my medical school friends texted me that she was coming in for a transplant surgery case later that night. She asked if I wanted extra food she made and I had not eaten yet so the soup and rice were much appreciated! After a series of events that led to the patient, who was already intubated, not getting the transplant that day, she was going to scrub in on a case with another patient on the unit who had coded a few hours prior and was now actively bleeding out. We walked over together to the patient's room, and on the way, we walked by the family crying in the hallway outside the unit. We walked five more feet and turned the corner. The patient was not doing well, surrounded by a team of surgeons, and getting moved into the elevator to go to the operating room immediately. My friend went down with her team, and I walked back to the trauma residents workroom. It was surreal to observe the emotions of that patient's family. I feel pretty desensitized but moments like these stick with me. Shortly thereafter, I went to go see consults with my resident again - back to work. Among the consults was a pleasant middle-aged obese women with one leg and signs of severe peripheral venous disease in the other. I also did a tertiary trauma survey on my own on this older man who passed out playing golf and had broken a few ribs. I felt in the zone. 

I could not have asked for a better week. I was fighting off a viral bug for most of it which sapped some of my energy. But, honestly, that did not matter. As soon as I stepped into the hospital, I did not think about it at all. And I got along great with my residents - the energies matched up well. What a great week. 

















